---
layout: post
title: Mazeppa - King of post(de)colonial шtudies
date: 2015-08-01
tags: cc
thumbfolder: mazeppathumb
---
*street opera-performance    
by the Co-operative for Creative Research ["Krasnaya Shpana"](https://www.facebook.com/krasnaya.shpana){:target="_blank"}  
performed multiple times in 2015*

A half-year artistic research on the internet made by the artists, who now have become experts in post(de)colonial studies, will be presented through private and political, by acting, performance and performing.   
In the core of the performance lies the real historical figure – Ukrainian hetman Ivan Mazepa, who’s always been an ambivalent figure: A hero for Western Europeans and Ukrainians, a traitor for the Russians. In the period of European Romanticism he became part of a collective myth, a main character for many works of art, his figure is still used for political speculations by different politicians from various countries. The performance addresses Mazeppa once again in order to reveal through his figure complexities of the ongoing political processes.   
In the times, when in Ukraine is ongoing war fed by the Russian imperialist ressentiment, Kurds are in full arms fighting against ISIS and Turkish government, Russia continues its airstrikes in Syria – we are doing performance about Mazeppa. Traditional political institutions are incapable to react on what is happening in the world, academy is incapable to produce relevant knowledge, only art is capable on all of this.   
We had unauthorizedly shown this performance once on the russian soil sprinkled by conservatism, near the former Ukrainian pavilion in the All-Russian Exhibition centre (VDNKh) in Moscow, and now we are placing it into sterile venues created specially for contemporary art.   
Do not miss it!

<div class="lazycontainer"><div class="lazyYT" data-youtube-id="YjHTGCO_B4o" data-ratio="16:9">loading...</div></div>
Moscow (originally), August 2015 | 13:17

<div class="lazycontainer"><div class="lazyYT" data-youtube-id="AcjddAFLRrQ" data-ratio="16:9">loading...</div></div>
Berlin - Paris (reperformed and institutionalized), October 2015    
[facebook event](https://www.facebook.com/events/1014839625247704/permalink/1027790403952626/)
