---
layout: post 
title: European Ministry of Culture
date: 2016-05-09
thumbfolder: emcthumb
---
*with [ongoing project](http://ongoing-project.org/){:target="_blank"}  
Beirut, Lebanon and Melsungen, Germany  
2015-2016*

On February 22, 2018, during the Maidan Revolution in Ukraine and the main events that were unfolding on Maidan square, a group of artists, cultural workers and activists moved several blocks away to seize a building that had belonged to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine. On the same evening they occupied the building and on the very next day they established the Assembly of Cultural Workers in Ukraine. In the declaration they stated that they will hold the building until the ministry fulfills the list of their demands. The assembly’s aspirations were limited not only to people or structural change in the Ministry (“replacement of all the officials”, “reorganisation”), it was also questioning the very foundations of this institution, its role in culture (“stop to control culture and to serve any ideology!”) and whether it even should to exist. 

Now, after the post-revolutionary government has taken back the control over all of state bodies, the assembly ceased to exist, partly because of the government’s pressure, but partly because of the inner contradictions it had. Nevertheless, by trying to figure out how culture can be dealt with it brought up some important issues: what way of organizing of cultural workers and cultural production might be revolutionary enough to overcome the inequalities that exist in the cultural field  and beyond, behind cultural practices in our everyday life and politics. This is what the European Ministry of Culture adheres to. It is as well trying to point out that there is no neutral culture, cultural policies or cultural management and reveal the underlying ideologies.

The EMC investigates how culture is governed and regulated by the State, how it is embodied in its institutions and what influence do European policies have on European art and Ukraine in particular.

**European Ministry of Culture in Melsungen**  
*at Radko-Stöckl-Schule  
Melsungen, Germany  
February 2016*  

The Melsungen project took place in Radko-Stöckl-Schule in collaboration with its pupils and teachers. It was a long-term project and consisted of several parts. I participated in the final part by spending a week with pupils, giving a presentation on the working conditions of artists in Ukraine and preparing the project’s final-evening show at a specially rented venue in Melsungen. There I performed Political Weather Forecast. The transripts of the presentation and performance are available in the final publication (link below).

**Downloads:**  
[publication full](http://www.ongoing-project.org/inhalt/emc/publikation.pdf){:target="_blank"} De/En  
[Political Weather Forecast performance documentation](https://www.dropbox.com/s/locv5wd0ba1s7cn/EMC_Publikationweather.pdf?dl=1){:target="_blank"} En