---
layout: post 
title: Recent Updates
date: 2020-08-04
---
**Alexanderplatz** in collaboration with Denis Pankratov
<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/314563273?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; clipboard-write" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="Alexanderplatz"></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script><br />

**The Metaphysics of Cultural Transformation** in collaboration with Paul Maciejowski in the framework of Remote and Imminent: Culture and Conflict organized by the Goethe-Institute (2018-2019). [Final Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vT8zRQalewCWi8dVpr0r7YICMjOxx0QwVFNuXXrUY93ZyH9GmhjYxlgCLXPmx2Y2mJ3JONNCCdvDiDw/pub){:target="_blank"}. It extensively describes the context in which the project took place and includes links to the project's video journal. The goal of the research was to learn about the symbolic meaning that cultural transformation produces and how it influences people's conscious and unconscious. The researchers was an attempt to find out how does a transition from dilapidated post-industrial areas to successful cultural industries happen, research the phenomenon of cultural transformation that takes place during the transition, and learn where the value of industrial ruins comes from.

**[Re]Staging Participation** in collaboration with Olga Zovskaya (2019). [A short video that explains the idea behind the project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sUkUESw75io&feature=youtu.be&t=19m57s){:target="_blank"}(starts 19m57s). The project [Re]Staging Participation revisited past participatory workshops that took place in the framework of the City Scanning Session 2017 festival in Ivano-Frankivsk (Ukraine) or were further initiated in the city by the festival organizers. It is an artistic inquiry into the phenomenon of participation, an attempt to understand its social and political function, its meaning to the people involved, and its influence on them and the city.
